Add: Blog post about OpenTTD TrueType fonts (#295)
OpenTTD/website: _posts/2024-02-06_openttd-truetype-fonts.md

> ---

Reviewer: The `_` in the name should be a `-`, as otherwise it won't be published :)

title: TrueType fonts for OpenTTD
author: Zephyris
---

The pixel-art OpenTTD fonts are iconic, but were designed for 640x480 CRT monitors rather than today's 4k monsters.

> The pixel-perfect rendering and 2x or 4x upscaling of the old bitmap/sprite-based font gives jagged and hard-to-read text, especially as they were designed to be horizontally smoothed by CRT scanlines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without the horizontal smoothing of CRT scanlines, modern pixel-perfect rendering and 2x or 4x upscaling of the old bitmap/sprite-based font makes the text jagged and hard to read.
```

> How do you update a 30-year old font to make it more suitable for today?

Reviewer 2: This could be a good first sentence for the whole story, I think. Although maybe 30 years isn't old for a font. 😛

<!-- more -->

> ![Composite of a simulated CRT and modern screenshot of OpenTTD]({% link /static/img/post_2024-02-06_openttd-truetype-fonts/crt.png %})

Reviewer 2: There's no uploaded image by this name. 😉

Author: Gah, silly me!

The short answer is "make a real font" - a TrueType font.
The smooth splines of TrueType font characters scale with no loss of details and no pixel jaggies, while anti-aliased rendering mimics CRT scanline smoothing.

Making a font which captures the look and feel of a pixel art font is an interesting challenge.
In my misspent youth I've made some fonts from scratch, but designing a font to match the look and feel of a pixel art font is much more constrained.

> In some ways this limits creativity, but designing with constraints but can be better.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In some ways this limits creativity, but designing with constraints can be better.
```

This was hard for the serif, very hard for the sans-serif, and extremely hard for the small font!
I had to cheat with the small font, it's a 7-pixel tall font pretending to be 6 pixels tall, but mostly works.

## The opportunities!

![Signs saying latin, greek and cyrillic alphabet]({% link /static/img/post_2024-02-06_openttd-truetype-fonts/alphabets.png %})

Having spent the time to make these fonts it opened up a range of options for improvements.
OpenTTD has a very international player base, with many players using languages which use the Cyrillic or Greek alphabets.
Having made the Latin alphabet, it was (relatively) easy to make Cyrillic and Greek alphabets, with full character coverage of all the OpenTTD translations.
It was also (relatively) easy to make a monospaced font based on the sans-serif font, for the in-game Readmes, Changelogs, etc.

Looking to the future, these fonts are complete for all European languages, but it enables easy future development.
Having dedicated fonts makes it easier to support more languages - we can and guarantee a font is available with the necessary characters.

> There's also the possibility to add and more currency symbols.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There's also the possibility to add more currency symbols.
```

or

```suggestion
There's also the possibility to add more and more currency symbols.
```
